Project Captions

Ian Griffin,
 
Close


Designing for contexts and contents. Born in Pennsylvania, I moved to New York City to earn my BFA in Communications design with a focus in graphic design at Pratt Institute. While in NYC, I engaged in supplimental education; attending Typography Summer School NYC and an adayw_ workshop. I've worked at MF9 World, Agency LOVE, and Wieden + Kennedy NYC. Currently freelancing, looking for a permanent position, and working on collaborative projects.
info@ian-griffin.com
	1.	Unearthing Print 2021 
	2.	Shopping Scan Games Copywrighting and digital design GIST App, 2021  GIST App is a new platform to see what your friends buy. They recently came to me to work on a project parallel to the app as a gateway to their product. The idea was two “shopping scans” that would analyze your email for purchases and tell you a little more about what you buy. The first game would tell you how much of your online purchases go to Amazon. I pitched the idea of “How much do you love Jeff Bezos?” and we ran with it. The other game was on how much of what you buy is American made. The idea for that was based on a humorous take on patriotism and communism as a dichotomy. I went on to make the landing pages as well as a number of result pages for both games, visualizing the user's placement and describing them based on the results of the scan. The games can be found here: USA, Bezos 
	3.	Stella Alpina Typefaces, branding, and packaging. 2021  Designed and typeset labels for a line of essential oil fragrances. Each fragrance is named after an Italian town or city. The mixtures are bottled with crystals of different varieties and associations, which also help to keep the oils mixed. The logotype is a delicate floral serif. The finer details are set in a more simpler yet aromatic serif. The labels are printed on business cards with gold foil on the front, and hole punched individually to fit on the bottles and produce an elevated appearance while still being cost effective. 
	4.	Pratt Institute: Material Lab Identity and collateral with Hua Chen. 2019  Hua Chen and I collaborated on creating an identity for Pratt Institute's Material Lab. The material lab is a place where students can investigate different samples for their projects. We devised a dynamic logo that changes each time it appears, showcasing the vast array of material options the lab has available. The logo also expands into a system of containers and rules for larger layouts. We also concepted wayfinding and other collateral, such as a tote bag. Typeface by M—L—XL. 
	5.	Torus Poster, poem. Planet Earth class Pratt Institute. 2019  I have recently been inspired by theories on the universe, how it was formed, and potentially how it will end. One speculation among some scientists is that the universe has a donut-shaped topology, which would entail that it will implode on itself in what is called “the big crunch,” only to explode in a “big bang"” again. This poster imagines what life is like in a topologically torus shaped universe. If you extended your arm in one direction, it would return right behind you to tap you on the shoulder. I devised a mirror room in Blender to demonstrate this concept, and wrote a poem to demonstrate the conundrum of existence within our universe. Typeface by Dinamo. 
	6.	Pages Prints Alternative Substrates class Pratt Institute. 2019  On swirling, and what it means to be displaced from your center. Typeface by Jangs Müller Type Foundry. 
	7.	Cooper Creative NYC Animated logotype Agency LOVE 2019  Typeface by Dinamo. 
	8.	Fragrance Foundation Website redesign Agency LOVE 2019  Front-end design. Website Link 
	9.	A Post Artifact Library Website. Post-Artifact Book Pratt Institute 2019  An archive of projects done by my classmates of Post-Artifact Book at Pratt for the Internet Art Book Fair. The design relates to the library “stacks” at Pratt with its Tiffany glass floors. Website Link 
	10.	Wieden + Kennedy NY Wayfinding Typeface. 2018  Independent project while I was a resident at WKNY. 
	11.	Delta: #Pilottalksweepstakes Posters, various collateral. Wieden+Kennedy 2018  Applied graphics to various epherma (coasters, cups, wall art, posters) to spread the word about the PilotTalk Wall in Williamsburg. From @wknyc on Instagram: “Head to N 10th and Wythe, spell out your favorite destination Delta flies to from NYC (there are 132!) using the pilot’s alphabet, upload to Instagram with #pilottalksweepstakes and you could win a roundtrip pair of tickets! Check it out until July 22nd”. 
	12.	Delta: Visiting your Mom is Easy Posters Wieden+Kennedy 2018  Worked on creating advertisements for Delta that remind you to visit your Mom. From delta.com: “Launching August 15, the campaign features personal, heartfelt messages from real moms of Seattleites that remind their children to come visit: ‘Hey Babe, Visit soon! Love, Mom’ and ‘Stu, I’ll always be here for you. Waiting. In Denver. For you to visit. Love, Mom.’ These quirky, handwritten reminders to visit are coupled with heartwarming home photos showing each mom with their child. The messages will appear across the city, including on billboards, storefront posters, and at local bars and hot spots.” This project involved working closely to brand guidelines as well as a great deal of consideration on the typography; using a placeholder font, we were able to give Delta an idea of what the handwriting would look like once the posters were handed off to the Mom's to leave their messages. 
	13.	Posters for parties 24x36″ Posters Typography IV Pratt Institute 2018  Held parties for students at Pratt Institute and designed large posters to promote them. I found it very hard to rally the troops to these parties, as all I really wanted was to get my classmates to come together after class for some drinks. This I think is partially due to the size of the posters which has a very institutional quality. I think they would have functioned better at a smaller poster size, but I kept within the guidelines of the assignment. 
	14.	Village Vanguard Branding, posters Advertising II Pratt Institute 2018  An iconic and historic jazz venue in New York City, I created a dynamic branding system just as lively and playful as the musicians who play there. Typeface by Soft Machine. 
	15.	How to wrap a gift with a BAGGU Postcard Typography Summer School 2016  I was asked to present a promotional postcard which instructs on how to wrap a gift with a BAGUU tote bag. This was my first client, and while they did not pick my finished design, I learned a lot from Typography Summer School. It was a great opportunity to get hands on feedback from esteemed designers and being in a constructive learning environment. Typeface by Dinamo. 
	16.	Reanimation Library Identity. three 18x24″ promotional posters and 3 informational brochures that unfold into take home 11x17″ posters Typography III Pratt Institute 2016  Worked with Matthew Ramirez in researching the Reanimation Library, then made my own posters for the library/archive. From their website: “The Reanimation Library is an independent presence library. The books in the collection–simultaneously prosaic and peculiar–are relics of the rapidly receding 20th century. Chosen primarily for the images that they contain, they have been culled from thrift stores, rummage sales, flea markets, municipal dumps, library sales, give-away piles, and used bookstores across the country. *Presence library is a mistranslation of the German word for reference library, Präsenzbibliothek. In addition to being a non-circulating collection, the library encourages IRL encounters with actual books and actual humans.” Typeface by Colophon. 
	17.	L'Absinthe Brand, packaging, and label Advertising I Pratt Institute 2016  Designed a perfume named after the painting by Edgar Degas. I used a monospace "typewriter" typeface, as the painting was made around the same time as the first typewriter. The packaging on the box also harkens back to concrete poetry, as well as the hallucinatory effects of absinthe. 
	18.	Recto Verso Press Animated Logo AfterEffects Pratt Institute 2016  Logo for an imaginary book publisher “Recto Verso Press.” The initials R and V are hidden in the shape of the folded paper. 
	19.	“Beginners” or “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” Illustration Visual Communications II Pratt Institute 2015  Based on a short story by Raymond Carver.  
	20.	Casiokids: Olympiske Leker Album cover Visual Communications I Pratt Institute 2014  Visuals for an imagined vinyl single from Casiokids. 
